INSTALLATION

perl Makefile.PL
make
make test
make install

NOTE:  This module now relies on XML::SAX and XML::SAX::PurePerl for parsing
       the XML output of nmap.

DOCUMENTATION

If you want to view the docs post installation, do

perldoc Nmap::Scanner

then

perldoc Nmap::Scanner::Scanner

to start.

If you want to look pre-install, cd to lib first.

SYNOPSIS

Nmap::Scanner perlifies the output of the network mapping tool nmap 
(http://www.insecure.org/nmap/), creating lists of model objects in batch scan
mode or firing events when significant scanning events occur in event scan mode.

If you do not have nmap installed on your system, you will need to install it 
before you can use this module.  Please make sure to use a version that is
at or newer than 3.10ALPHA4, as I contributed a few small patches to output
the port found messages nmap outputs as it is running in XML format.

Older versions (as far back as 2.54BETA32) should work with this module, but the
port found events will not not be seen.

This version, and all versions forward, will only parse the XML output
from nmap (-oX -) as that is the most stable output format from nmap and
will change very little compared to the other output formats (according
to Fyodor, the author of nmap).

I contributed a few very minor patches to the nmap project in order to get
the port found event to produce XML output (the "normal" format is the only other
output format that shows this event) ... this allows me to continue to refine
both the event-based and batch mode scanning model.

The XML output is structured much differently than the normal output was,
so the object model for Nmap::Scanner has changed pretty significantly from
the previous two releases.  Fortunuately, the other two releases were so unstable due
to the instability of the "normal" output mode that I think very few people
actually used those two versions of Nmap::Scanner. ;)

I am also considering giving up matching nmap switches with methods as the options
change frequently .. this version lets the user pass all nmap scanning flags to the
scan method ...

my $scanner = Nmap::Scanner->new();

my @hosts = $scanner->scan('-sS -P0 -O');

Hopefully this will also make the module more useful to people who are already
familiar with nmap.  Most likely all scan option methods will disappear next release
unless I hear otherwise from users .. the scan($option) will be the way to start 
a scan if that is the case.

Please feel free to email me with nmap-scanner related questions, comments, and
criticisms.  All feedback is welcomed.

I hope you find this project useful :).

Max

nmap -AT- webwizarddesign -dot- com
